<span id="anchor-24"></span>2021-03-24

Attendees: Josh Moore, Matthias Bussonnier, Ryan Williams, Hailey
Johnson, Jackson Brown, John Kirkham, Martin Durant, Gregory Lee, Ryan
Abernathey

-   Martin / dask summit (May). Leading dask io focused workshop. Good
    to have Zarr use cases. Why is dask & zarr a good thing. Good to
    present V3 progress.

    -   [*https://summit.dask.org/present/*](https://summit.dask.org/present/)

-   Greg / zarr_implementations

    -   V3 spec in progress, waiting for update from Alistar

    -   Maybe (extremely rough) timeline \~3 months?

    -   Imaging: Josh + Jackson + OME Community large testing after v3
        > likely

    -   Big view: for implementations? No, just testing

-   Martin / Codecs

    -   New one for shuffle. Doesn’t get a ton of love.

    -   Windows tests were turned on!

    -   John: zfpy support. (Lossy - possibly

    -   Martin: imagecodecs does some of this.

    -   Josh: invite Gohlke for imaging specific?

    -   Martin: interested due to the reference offsets

    -   Josh: had started trying to make numcodecs Pure Python
        > ([*274*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/numcodecs/pull/274))

        -   John: shuffle work makes that harder
        -   Martin: not exposed in the Python wrapper
        -   John: still makes sense to try to.

    -   Ryan: but others won’t be able to open the data.

    -   Josh: dangerous for other languages (see zarr_implementions)

    -   Martin: write in rust.

    -   Jackson:
        > [*https://github.com/pyca/cryptography/issues/5771*](https://github.com/pyca/cryptography/issues/5771)

    -   Ryan: tileDB codecs? Martin: can we just call those?

    -   [*https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/tree/dev/cmake/Modules*](https://github.com/TileDB-Inc/TileDB/tree/dev/cmake/Modules)

-   Ryan / xarray multiscale

    -   [*https://github.com/pydata/xarray/issues/4118*](https://github.com/pydata/xarray/issues/4118)

    -   Ryan: hard to find the people. Needs a champion.

    -   Josh: will minimally reference it.

    -   Jackson: happy to contribute since it’s the backend for
        > aicsimageio

-   Matthias / v3 spec

    -   Just a matter of time to rebase.

    -   will synchronize with Gregory. (GL: good to meet, one on one)

    -   MB: main difficulty was getting support for v2 and v3 at the
        > same time.

-   Hailey / zarr-java

    -   Will support v2 & v3

    -   working on v3 now.

    -   Plan is to have something in 4 weeks.

-   EOSS 4

    -   John: keeping other projects funded

    -   Matthias: who has access to numfocus slack?

    -   Sparse/Awkward arrays?

-   EOSS 1

    -   Ryan: getting contract set up correctly. (issue of name)

    -   

