---
layout: default
title: 3rd July
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2019-07-03
parent: 2019 meetings
nav_order: 11
---

# 3rd July, 2019

Time: 20:00 BST (15:00 EDT).

Joining instructions see above.

**Attending: Alistair, Josh, RyanW, Ward, John, Martin**

<span id="anchor-71"></span>Standing items

<span id="anchor-72"></span>**Introductions**: new joinees should feel
welcome to introduce themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.

<span id="anchor-73"></span>Items

-   Telecon frequency, length, format. (20:04)

    -   General agreement on proposal. Revisit time slot, lower
        > frequency, potentially shorten. Though may need *more* time if
        > we’re meeting less frequently.

    -   Also need a rotation for sending reminders, etc. Thoughts?

    -   Ryan: would say keeping every two weeks is good, even if don’t
        > have stuff to report. Once a month in the throes of a spec
        > seems long.

    -   Ward: could accommodate either schedule. Do like the momentum.
        > Every two week with nothing to report helps to keep the
        > momentum. Can go to less frequent later.

    -   Martin: no one wants to take on more organization. Ad hoc
        > discussion is important.

    -   Josh: could also see more informal meetings (even down to 15
        > minutes) and use it to set up longer meetings.

    -   Alistair: can see more frequent, but would help massively if
        > someone else is sending the reminders. Cf. w3c -- 1.5 hours
        > every couple of weeks, and then periodic F2F meetings.

    -   Josh: and biweeklies are still reporting and deeper technical
        > discussions?

    -   Alistair: planning on focusing on the spec and python
        > implementation, so would be good to have time to surface
        > design issues.

    -   Ward: reasonable.

    -   Alistair:

        -   doodle after scipy (new connections)
        -   skip the 17th, likely to re-start the week after (@John to
            send)

-   CZI call (20:18)

    -   Alistair: interest expressed, but concretely …

        -   Also starts towards the end of the year

        -   Rough roadmap: (1) finish v3 core spec, (2) implemented in
            active languages (C, Scala, Python, C++, Julia, \~Java
            (native, re-use scala, wrap C)), (3) fundamental extensions
            like codecs & storage layers and perhaps protocol
            extensions, (4) governance (sustainability / transparency /
            fairness)

        -   Someone to work on spec & implementation

        -   Cf. new use cases (MET office, sparse arrays, etc)

        -   Josh: thinking of very similar steps as Alistair -- (0)
            governance (1) spec (2) prototype (3) supported format --
            and that works in parallel with the zarr plan.

        -   Alistair: happy to host someone

        -   Matt (via Alistair): talk to people at scipy about
            identifying peoples

        -   Ryan: wondering via spec v. implementation pitch. Could say
            both. Personally have some bandwidth to work on
            implementation. Could potentially host someone at Mount
            Sinai.

        -   John: We could try to get affiliated with NumFOCUS. That’s a
            bit easier. Alistair and I could try to get this started at
            SciPy

        -   Alistair: looking for ways to ***accelerate*** development,
            failing that we will try to get people together. “Here are
            the people who are looking to contribute.

        -   Ryan: NumFOCUS, 250K (100K for spec; 100K for development
            work, 50k overhead)

        -   Unidata? Ward: have put in several NSF grants (“cloud native
            data access”, explicitly stating zarr) Attractive.

        -   Josh's three pillars of Zarr excitement:

            -   bio domain applications (imaging, single-cell, genomics,
                > pangeo, etc.)

            -   new functionality / cloud-native features / distributed
                > processing

            -   integration with existing stable NetCDF standardized
                > layer / ecosystem

    -   TODOs

        -   RyanW: to write to NumFOCUS

        -   Alistair/John: to follow up at scipy

        -   Alistair to email to all interested parties

        -   Josh: will send gdoc for bioimaging

        -   \[???\] governance for NumFOCUS

            -   Ward: hdfgroup has governance documents

        -   **Add to the blog!**

-   How to break up the spec into a series of discussion topics,  
    and what order to take them in. (20:xx)

-   Roadmap?

-   [*v3 spec latest
    draft*](https://zarr-specs.readthedocs.io/en/core-protocol-v3.0-dev/)

-   [*v3 design
    update*](https://zarr-developers.github.io/slides/v3-update-20190619.html#/)

-   SciPy / PPTX discussions

    -   Alistair: **best** exemplars? Thinking to give 3.

        -   Malaria genomics
        -   Single cell (from RyanW, Ambrose as a backup)
        -   Pangeo (RyanA)

<span id="anchor-74"></span>

