---
layout: default
title: 3rd June
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-06-03
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 11
---

# 3rd June, 2020

Attending: Matthias Bussonnier, Ward Fisher (can only stay 30 min
-20:21)m John Kirkham, Dennis, Ryan Williams, Alistair Miles, Martin
Durant, Andrew Fulton, Josh Moore (20:18-)

Apologies:

-   Standing items

    -   **Introductions**: new joinees should feel welcome to introduce
        > themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.

    -   Noone new.

-   Etiquette to ping for feedback/merge on pull-requests on various
    repositories ?

    -   what kind of turnaround time should contributors/committers
        > expect (for reviews, discussion)?

    -   straightforward doc updates etc. can sometimes sit for O(weeks)

    -   different repos likely to move at different paces (spec
        > updates/discussions will go more slowly)

    -   

-   Partial Decompression discussion ?

    -   [*numcodecs#235*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/numcodecs/pull/235)

    -   cuts across lots of the stack

    -   Alistair: Who and why do we want to use partial decompress.

    -   Andrew: clients need partial read with network store.

    -   Matthias potentially behind feature flag.

    -   Partial read would reduce the IO.

    -   Most of the time you may need to read full check to give it to
        > bloac.

    -   We are going to try to better understand the use case, and see
        > how that could be percolated from the end user API to IO
        > layer.

    -   Mark unstable.

    -   Andrew will do some of this.

-   Spec discussion of last week. Still keeping draft up to date:
    [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/71*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/71)

    -   How do you fallback ?

    -   Dennis: interrogate tech spec about what types are available and
        > let user decide fallback.

    -   Alistair: only allow fallback on basetype.

    -   Be restrictive in v3 and solve it in v3.1

    -   Must_understand. Discussion:

        -   What does HDf5 does.

        -   Fail when you encounter.

        -   Avoid locking the superblock.

            -   You might not be able to lock.

    -   Quidance in the spect with trailing / .

    -   Maybe remove groups metadata documents.

    -   Groups only have attributes.

    -   Josh: possible workarounds

        -   Duplicate metadata on the arrays...
        -   Create an extension for the subresolutions...
        -   Matthias: a differently name-spaced file?

    -   Dennis: think flat is a bad idea. Would prefer not being able to
        > get to an array without walking the groups. Containment leads
        > to a simpler semantic.

    -   Alistair: No support for parallel write of attributes of arrays.

    -   Disagreement if underlying storage system have locks: seem to
        > want to assume store does nto have locks.

    -   John: (generally) keeping v2 users in mind. What drove adoption?

        -   Alistair: starting from object storage since FS should
            comply
        -   John: consolidated metadata -- being able to get multiple
            keys in one request is an issue. Perhaps a question for API
            design.
        -   Matthias: how willing to have API async / non-blocking?
        -   Alistair: in Python? Yes. Good idea. See ongoing issue.
        -   [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/536*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/536)

-   Draft of v2/v3 adapter: [*\[DRAFT\] V3 spec implmentation. · Issue
    \#568 ·
    zarr-developers/zarr-python*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/568)

-   Closing: 21:40 UK

