---
layout: default
title: 16th November
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2022-11-16
parent: 2022 meetings
nav_order: 23
---

# 2022-11-16

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Josh Moore (JM), Davis Bennett (DB), Ryan Abernathey (RA), Dennis Heimbigner (DH), Hailey Johnson HJ), Ward Fisher (WF), Jonathan Striebel (JS)

## TL;DR: 

SV is going to speak at [PyData Global 2022](https://pydata.org/global2022/) next week and also going to run a sprint along with JM. Details for the talk are [here](https://global2022.pydata.org/cfp/talk/DQSXAX/) and sprint [here](https://pydata.org/global2022/sprints/#zarr). During the meeting a proposal to host a Discord server for chunked formats was raised by DB which later converted to creating a Discord server for the Zarr community. JM gave updates revolving around zarr-java, and lastly SV initiated the discussion on how we can separate Zarr (file storage format) from zarr-python (Python implementation of the Zarr spec).

**Updates:**

- ZEP1 Update, see [here](https://gitter.im/zarr-developers/community?at=6374fae6f9491f62c9b7ea61)
    - Check out the ZEP1 GH Project board [here](https://github.com/orgs/zarr-developers/projects/2/views/2); maintained by Jonathan Striebel
- PyData Global 2022 Sprint next-to-next week(1st-3rd  Dec.), anyone interested in helping out?
  - Need to know by this week
  - Also: Sanket giving a talk, "The Beauty of Zarr"
  
**Meeting Minutes:**

- DB: Discord for Chunked Formats?
  - Had problem and TypeScript Community was _very_ helpful.
  - New thread gets created per issue
  - Downside: not indexed by google
  - WF: like it, use it socially, want this to be a solution
  - WF: have people pushing people to _github_
  - RA: pangeo uses discourse. bringing more dialogue together?
    - critical is the granularity so we get take home 
  - DB: activation for forum post is 10x to discord message
  - WF: discord seems more synchronous
    - wouldn't work for NC since there wouldn't be enough critical mass
    - gitter straddles the line, since there's a lot to catch up on
    - but one for sync and async would be good
  - RA: don't see the other chunked formats being psyched to be in a channel with us. workflow might be the more useful framing
- zarr-java: discussions tomorrow about bringing back two forks of jzarr
  - JM (re-surfacing) care with Python discord? Yes.
    - HJ: always start by clarifying library vs file format
  - WF: good feedback on Zarr at unidata user committee meeting
    - being asked for in THREDSS
  - DH: recent discussion around ragged arrays
    - most people encounter zarr through python
    - that leads to an imprinting
    - when they run into nczarr, they are perplexed (things missing)
    - still a big problem
  - JS: incompatibilities between libraries could bring us down
    - v3 is spec first with feedback from different implementors
    - hopefully to drop python-specifics and possible to know what the incompatibilities are
    - claim: "Zarr is X", not just "a community project"
      - posters, repos, webpages, etc...
      - currently hard to grasp
  - SV: how to separate from Python
    - DH: go through tutorial and move things that are not in the v2 spec
    - DH: probably many go through the tutorial
    - DH: e.g. fortran community
    - JM: good points, but the same will be true for nczarr. v3 will give us the chance to label things more clearly.
    - WF: have to be clear about "NetCDF". Was specific talking to the user committee about the "Zarr data model", or "Zarr data storage"
      - specificity in language. data model and the format should be cross-language.
    - DH: ultimately goal is the nczarr extensions to be v3 extensions
    - JM: wonderful :tada: when would be a good time to plan for that?
    - DH: currently working on DAP4, but will shoehorn some time for bullet point list of extensions (and why)
