<span id="anchor-66"></span>2019-10-23

Attending: RyanW, JoshM, WardF, JohnK, Stephan Saalfeld (20:09), TonyT
(20:20)

-   Deliverables & deadlines

    -   Current setup

        -   Someone at Mt. Sinai and the rest to Quant\*
        -   SciPy: share accommodations?
        -   Overhead for NumFOCUS and Mt. Sinai

    -   Cf.
        > [*community#22*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/community/issues/22#issuecomment-515287086)

        -   John: Quant’s Ralf, community outreach
        -   Stephan: like ITK’s MattM

    -   Stephan:

        -   V2 backend worked on during the summer
        -   V3 looks to be a subset of N5, can coexist for a while

    -   Ryan:

        -   Leave spec related things

        -   Implementation best-effort (stretch the goals; towards the
            end)

        -   More towards spec designers (hard to get external person)

        -   Josh: but perhaps for implementing the
            [*TCK*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technology_Compatibility_Kit)

        -   John: sprints together to focus? (another version)

            -   NumFOCUS can take reimbursements

    -   10:30 finish up? John: more!

    -   **To cut/change:**

        -   Cut Julia \[2.2\]

        -   C++ \[2.4\] becomes C/C++

            -   Josh: may need to split NetCDF library to work like N5
                > above

            -   Stephan: v3 isn’t layered as needed by C or Java. Can’t
                > build on top. Would love to see more supercore, core,
                > then the other stuff.

                -   Or perhaps we’re just saying, “Extensions are
                    different stuff”

                -   E.g. *compression schemes* - uses numcodecs but API
                    is clear (Mem in; Mem out). Great.

                    -   But: Filters in V2. Unclear how they are
                        > parameterized, named, etc.

                -   *Chunk storage* in V2. Struct formatting language.
                    Can build new types. Makes sense.

                    -   But: In V3 we don’t have this. Can’t do the
                        > var-length chunks.

                -   *Attributes interface*: spec says “JSON”, but
                    extensions are possible, and then there’s no common
                    interface.

            -   TBD: in first couple of months.

            -   John: extension **API**? Will come. SS: Not natural for
                > Python thinking. JK: but MutableMapping is one
                > counterexample.

            -   Q to Ward: interface for C? WF: can speculate but Dennis
                > isn’t here.

        -   Josh: cut some of governance (do that via the community)?

            -   Cut \[3.1-3.3\]

        -   Josh: happy to keep 4.1 & 4.2

-   One vs many discussions (Josh) - 20:48

    -   Various people are asking: Zeiss, Napari, Fiji, etc.

    -   Stephan: HDF5 has less problems than a tarball (cf. N5/BDV)

    -   John: “just implement mutable mapping”

    -   Josh: is the proposal that add a HDF5 storage and them them to
        > use it? (i.e. what communities like BDV, OME, NetCDF are
        > already looking to do)

    -   John: there are some backends. Don’t know what works for their
        > use case. Need to do benchmarking. Perhaps something for the
        > position to do.

    -   Stephan: to let someone be *able* to do it.

    -   (Tabling Python angle for next time)

-   Next meeting

    -   John: Re-do doodle?

    -   Stephan: don’t need to also be there

    -   Ryan: happy to do every two weeks right now

    -   Record?

-   AOB (likely tabled)

    -   Roadmapping

    -   Any ongoing issues: permissions, etc.

