<span id="anchor-38"></span>2020-10-21

Attending: Alistair (having trouble connecting), Josh, Matthias, Ryan
Williams

-   Matthias/Grant

    -   Ralf: grant ending in December, but should have funds until
        > mid-January (at current burn rate). Target date for the RC?
        > For writing a report.

    -   Alistair: can we spend after the grant? No cost extension. Ryan:
        > assume that we can get one, but time to reach out.

    -   Matthias: could show a draft and an implementation

    -   Who? Dario perhaps. Ryan will follow up with steering-council
        > list

-   Spec/Matthias

    -   Need to work through details of whether or not implicit groups
        > *stay* implicit groups. Alistair: would find the right place
        > to put it in terms of implementation details (rather than
        > protocol itself) so that it doesn’t get overwhelming.

    -   Matthias: less precise in the spec and then another document?

    -   Alistair: section at the end “implementation notes”? Sounds
        > good.

-   RFC date?

    -   Alistair: Ready? Matthias: think it’s fine. Have gotten most of
        > the feedback as we’ve been going along.

        -   Requesting a quick read through by everyone.
        -   Current version as a release candidate
        -   Alistair to open an issue, tagging people, declaring RFC
            plan.

    -   Where to announce? GitHub, Twitter, CZI slack, Josh: image.sc
        > (for N5 community), …

        -   Label clearly (follow W3C “working draft” as leaving
            “editors’ draft”)
        -   Merge into master on zarr-specs
        -   Tweet, publicise (Quansight team as well)
        -   Blog post, declare RFC, talk about motivation, point to
            implementation work in C++ and Python, generate some
            community excitement
        -   Ask for feedback via github issues
        -   [*https://github.community/t/apply-labels-automatically-at-issue-creation/1218/5?u=joshmoore*](https://github.community/t/apply-labels-automatically-at-issue-creation/1218/5?u=joshmoore)

    -   When: Alistair on leave next week. So target 2 weeks?

-   Josh: n5+s3+zarr

    -   Typing since voice seems to be rubbish this evening: [*n5-zarr
        > PR*](https://github.com/saalfeldlab/n5-zarr/pull/5/files)
        > opened to deal with the same issue we had on the Zarr side of
        > combining nested storage & S3.

-   Josh: leads to a question of whether we want people investing in v2
    or v3

    -   Matthias: still struggling to keep v2 & v3 alive together (and
        > not a mess)

    -   More abstractions would be helpful. Then it would be easier for
        > people to move to V3.

    -   Alistair: agreed; and some refactoring is going to need to take
        > place. If people are willing, would be great to have a few
        > people contributing. Shouldn’t put people off more than we
        > must. But people need features in a production system.

    -   Matthias: have tried to activate codecov on the org.

    -   Josh: dealing with developer expectation and making use of
        > interest

    -   Alistair: focus on implementation work in Nov & Dec with goal by
        > EOY to have complete implementations (incl. C++) then by
        > January decide if we need another round of feedback.

    -   Josh: great to have that messaging. Will pass that along to the
        > Java community so that we can try to target *roughly* the same
        > timeline.

-   v3 dev call

    -   John had a clash.

    -   Alistair also to have a clash at that slot once the clocks go
        > back.

    -   Find another time?

    -   Matthias: could everyone try to schedule on the same day if not
        > hour 30-60 minutes for making comments/review? I.e. async. (in
        > written fashion)

    -   **Good idea**. “Zarr Fridays”

        -   Early mornings?

        -   Async:
            [*https://w3c.github.io/wot/charters/wot-ig-2019.html#decisions*](https://w3c.github.io/wot/charters/wot-ig-2019.html#decisions)

            -   Better:
                > [*https://whatwg.org/policies*](https://whatwg.org/policies)

